README.md, before:

Eve 0.3.3
=========

An experiment to learn how to make an interpreter.<br>
Eve is a simple interpreted language that targets the JVM.

Features
--------
Eve is a dynamically strongly typed, pure prototypal, object-oriented language:

* Everything is an object, and there are no classes.
* Objects are generated by cloning prototypes and existing objects.
* Objects have no delegation relationship with one another (as in 
  JavaScript); this reduces confusion and mistakes when dealing with
  references.
* Eve runs on the Java Virtual Machine, and integration with Java code is
  possible.
  
For more information about prototypal OOP programming, see the Wikipedia
article:

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prototype-based_programming>

Usage
-----
First, write an eve file. See the wiki for language reference, tutorials, and
examples. Then, invoke the Eve interpreter:

    java -jar dist/eve.jar file.eve
    
You can invoke the executable jar with the `-h` option to get more a summary
of options used to tweak the interpreter.

Building
========
First, check out the code from the Git repository. The master branch always
reflects the latest stable release, while develop reflects the latest code
under development.

The primary requirement for buildin and running Eve is Java. Eve is developed
and tested on the "official" 1.6 HotSpot VM. It should work under Java 1.5, but
that environment is unsupported. It will not work under Java 1.4 or lower.

Eve uses Apache Ant for building and Apache Ivy for resolving dependencies.
Make sure to install those first. On Linux, your distro may have them.
For example, to install Ant and Ivy on Ubuntu 10.10:

    sudo apt-get install ant ivy
    
If necessary, install Ant and Ivy manually. They can be found at:

<http://ant.apache.org/><br/>
<http://ant.apache.org/ivy/>

Once having installed Ant and Ivy and putting them on your classpath, run the
build script by typing "ant" in the root of the repository. Dependencies will
be fetched and added to the classpath automatically.

The build process will produce an executable jar `eve.jar` in the `dist`
directory. Execute `java -jar dist/eve.jar` to start the interpreter.

Troubleshooting
---------------
### Building Issues ###
Before running Ant, make sure Ivy is on your classpath. If Ivy is not on the
classpath, the dependecy resolution task will fail. For example, to get Ivy on
the classpath in Ubuntu 10.10:

`export CLASSPATH=/usr/share/java/ivy.jar:$CLASSPATH`

### Interpreter Can't Find Dependencies ###
The executable jar requires a number of dependencies. Make sure a `lib/`
directory exists in the location where eve.jar is, and make sure
all required dependencies are in that directory. If those are present, Eve
should able to be run from anywhere. The build process should dump all required
dependencies into the `dist/` directory for you.

Release Notes
=============
0.3.4:

* Basic REPL.

0.3.3:

* Fixed null pointer exception related to auto deep cloning with closures.

0.3.2:

* Put release notes in the readme file!
* Added automatic deep cloning for lists and dicts.
* Changed `def` and `delegate` syntax to be less obtuse.
* Added `null` value and variable initialization without assignment.

0.3.1:

* Bug fixes of some sort.

0.3.0:

* Large update that completely changes how to create objects.

Big things left to do:

* Object family support (for pushing changes to many objects)
* Ahead of Time "compilation"
* A standard library

Things to consider:

* Multithreading

Commit message:

mention unit tests in readme

README.md, after:

Eve 0.3.3
=========

An experiment to learn how to make an interpreter.<br>
Eve is a simple interpreted language that targets the JVM.

Features
--------
Eve is a dynamically strongly typed, pure prototypal, object-oriented language:

* Everything is an object, and there are no classes.
* Objects are generated by cloning prototypes and existing objects.
* Objects have no delegation relationship with one another (as in 
  JavaScript); this reduces confusion and mistakes when dealing with
  references.
* Eve runs on the Java Virtual Machine, and integration with Java code is
  possible.
  
For more information about prototypal OOP programming, see the Wikipedia
article:

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prototype-based_programming>

Usage
-----
First, write an eve file. See the wiki for language reference, tutorials, and
examples. Then, invoke the Eve interpreter:

    java -jar dist/eve.jar file.eve
    
You can invoke the executable jar with the `-h` option to get more a summary
of options used to tweak the interpreter.

Building
========
First, check out the code from the Git repository. The master branch always
reflects the latest stable release, while develop reflects the latest code
under development.

The primary requirement for buildin and running Eve is Java. Eve is developed
and tested on the "official" 1.6 HotSpot VM. It should work under Java 1.5, but
that environment is unsupported. It will not work under Java 1.4 or lower.

Eve uses Apache Ant for building and Apache Ivy for resolving dependencies.
Make sure to install those first. On Linux, your distro may have them.
For example, to install Ant and Ivy on Ubuntu 10.10:

    sudo apt-get install ant ivy
    
If necessary, install Ant and Ivy manually. They can be found at:

<http://ant.apache.org/><br/>
<http://ant.apache.org/ivy/>

Once having installed Ant and Ivy and putting them on your classpath, run the
build script by typing "ant" in the root of the repository. Dependencies will
be fetched and added to the classpath automatically.

The build process will produce an executable jar `eve.jar` in the `dist`
directory. Execute `java -jar dist/eve.jar` to start the interpreter.

Tests
-----
If you want to run the test suite, run `ant test` instead of `ant jar`.

Troubleshooting
---------------
### Building Issues ###
Before running Ant, make sure Ivy is on your classpath. If Ivy is not on the
classpath, the dependecy resolution task will fail. For example, to get Ivy on
the classpath in Ubuntu 10.10:

`export CLASSPATH=/usr/share/java/ivy.jar:$CLASSPATH`

### Interpreter Can't Find Dependencies ###
The executable jar requires a number of dependencies. Make sure a `lib/`
directory exists in the location where eve.jar is, and make sure
all required dependencies are in that directory. If those are present, Eve
should able to be run from anywhere. The build process should dump all required
dependencies into the `dist/` directory for you.

Release Notes
=============
0.3.4:

* Basic REPL.

0.3.3:

* Fixed null pointer exception related to auto deep cloning with closures.

0.3.2:

* Put release notes in the readme file!
* Added automatic deep cloning for lists and dicts.
* Changed `def` and `delegate` syntax to be less obtuse.
* Added `null` value and variable initialization without assignment.

0.3.1:

* Bug fixes of some sort.

0.3.0:

* Large update that completely changes how to create objects.

Big things left to do:

* Object family support (for pushing changes to many objects)
* Ahead of Time "compilation"
* A standard library

Things to consider:

* Multithreading
